.TH "zsyncmake" "1" "0.7.2" "Colin Phipps" "File Transfer"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
zsyncmake \- Build control file for zsync(1)
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
zsyncmake [ \-u \fIurl\fR ] [ \-b \fIblocksize\fR ] [ \-o \fIoutfile\fR ] [ \-f \fItargetfilename\fR ] [ \-v ] [ \-s \fIhash\fP ] \fIfilename\fP
.LP 
zsync \-V
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Constructs a metafile for the zsync client program to use to perform partial file downloads. \fIfilename\fR is the file that users wish to downloads; zsyncmake constructs the appropriate metafile and writes \fIfilename\fR.zsync in the current directory.
.LP 
zsync will need at least one URL from which to download the file content. If the .zsync will be in the same directory as the file to download, you can accept the default \- zsync includes a relative URL in the control file. If not, use the \fB\-u\fR option to specify the URL. You should also specify a URL for the uncompressed content with \-U if available, as zsync can make use of this for more efficient downloads sometimes. (You can edit the .zsync file and add these afterwards \- it has a simple key: value format in the header \- but I suggest you only do this once you are familiar with the tool.)
.LP 
Note that zsyncmake itself does not (currently) verify the URLs or download any data, you must provide the file data locally and check the URLs yourself.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-b\fR \fIblocksize\fR
Specify the blocksize to the underlying rsync algorithm. A smaller blocksize may be more efficient for files where there are likely to be lots of small, scattered changes between downloads; a larger blocksize is more efficient for files with fewer or less scattered changes. This blocksize must be a power of two. If not specified, zsyncmake chooses one which it thinks is best for this file (currently either 2048 or 4096 depending on file size) - so normally you should not need to override the default.
.TP 
\fB\-f\fR \fIfilename\fR
Set the filename to include in the output file (this is what the file will be called when a user finished downloading it).
.TP 
\fB\-o\fR \fIoutputfile\fR
Override the default output file name.
.TP 
\fB\-s\fR \fIhash\fR
Selects the hash used to confirm matching data blocks. Can be "MD4", "MD5" or "SHA-224". MD4 is the default, and note that older zsync versions only support MD4.
.TP 
\fB\-u\fR \fIurl\fR
Specifies the URL from which users can download the content of the supplied file. Users need the control file in order to find out what parts of the file they already have, and they need the URLs to retrieve the parts of the file that they don't already have. You can specify multiple URLs by specifying \-u multiple times. If not specified, zsync assumes that the file and the .zsync will reside in the same public directory, and includes a single relative URL.
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR
Enable verbose messages.
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR
Prints the version of zsync.
.TP
zsync can work with compressed data, and, in most cases where the data is not already compressed, it is more efficient to compress it first. While you can just compress the file to transfer with gzip, if you use this option then zsyncmake will compress the file for you, producing a .gz file which is optimised for zsync. This can be 30% more efficient at download time than compressing with gzip --best - but the compressed file will not be as small at that produced by gzip.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP
zsyncmake \-u https://download.freebsd.org/ftp/releases/powerpc/powerpc64/ISO-IMAGES/15.0/FreeBSD-15.0-RELEASE-powerpc-powerpc64-disc1.iso FreeBSD-15.0-RELEASE-powerpc-powerpc64-disc1.iso
.LP
This creates a zsync referring to the named ISO, which the client should
download from the given URL.
.LP
For this to be useful to clients, there has to be a reasonable chance that the
user has an earlier or alternative version of the same ISO image locally to
provide local data to use when reconstructing the file.

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Colin Phipps <cph@moria.org.uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
zsync(1)
